# LA_Crime_Analysis
Link to original data set:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/qnqfbqfqo/crime-data-from-2020-to-present/

Link to PowerPoint Presentation:
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1T6ipTnjd_y4TzajeSssk87EzYCyn4xS9LTJAfAJustc/edit?usp=drive_link

This project was to visualize crime data from the Los Angeles area including plotting, and grouping of points by category on a Leaflet visualization. The dataset that we used is the LA crime data from 2020 to present. The goal was to best represent the areas which might be hotspots for different types of crimes. We picked Los Angeles because it is a representative area for the United States, with a population of 20 million people and being a major metropolitan area. We also want to analyze if there are any trends between time of day & types of crime, as well as if there are any times of year which have a spike in the amount of crimes. 
	To access the data we used an API from the LA crime database. We cleaned the data and separated the data. We stored the data in SQL and made tables to help organize our visulazations and store our data. Due to the size of the file being so large we had to limit the records to 2000. We also filtered by sex to best identify if there are any trends within the dataset on types of crime that are trending upwards or are trending downwards based on sexual orientation.
   For the visualization portion of this project we used javascript Leaflet. We started with a base street map. We then made different layers for the map. We separated these layers by sexual orientation incuding male, female, and undefined. To help create and access multiple layers with the interaction we used node.js. The interaction can be seen by downloading the index.html file and using the layer control in the top right corner to control the different layers and filter crimes by sexual orientation. Other parts of the interactive visualizations comes when you click the location markers. When the location markers are clicked it will show the following: sex, age, location, and type of crime committed.
   For the last part of the project we wanted to analyze the data and see if there were any correlations existed. To help with this we used Pandas. We ploted a pie chart to visualize the percentage of victims based on sex. We also used linear regression to visualize any possible correlations. 
